.TH TS 1 "@DATE@" "@VERSION@" "ts utility man page"
.SH NAME
ts \- timestamp input

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ts
[\-r] [\-i | \-s] [\-m] [\-p <precision level>] [format]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ts
utility adds a timestamp to the beginning of each line of input.

The optional
.I format
parameter controls how the timestamp is formatted, as used by
.BR strftime(3) .
The default format is "%b %d %H:%M:%S". In addition to the regular
strftime conversion specifications, "%.S" and "%.s" and "%.T" are like
"%S" and "%s" and "%T", but provide subsecond resolution (e.g.,
"30.00001" and "1301682593.00001" and "1:15:30.00001").

If the
.B \-r
switch is passed, it instead converts existing timestamps in the input
to relative times, such as "15m5s ago". Many common timestamp formats
are supported.

If both
.B \-r
and a format is passed, the existing timestamps are converted to the
specified format.

If the
.B \-i
or
.B \-s
switch is passed, ts reports incremental timestamps instead of
absolute ones. The default format changes to "%H:%M:%S", and "%.S" and
"%.s" can be used as well. With
.B \-i,
every timestamp will be the time elapsed since the last timestamp.
With
.B \-s,
the time elapsed since the start of the program is used.

The
.B \-m
switch makes the system's monotonic clock be used.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-r
Convert existing timestamps in the input to relative times.

.TP
.B \-i
Report incremental timestamps, time elapsed since the last timestamp.

.TP
.B \-s
Report incremental timestamps, time elapsed since start of the program.

.TP
.B \-m
Use the system's monotonic clock for timestamps.

.TP
.B \-p <precision level>
Set the precision level for relative timestamps, where precision
ranges from 1 to 4. Level 1 offers a broad overview, emphasising the
most significant non-zero unit of time. Levels 2 and 3 increase detail
by focusing on the two or three most significant non-zero time units,
respectively. Level 4 provides the highest detail, retaining up to
four significant non-zero time units without any approximation. The
default precision level is 2.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The standard
.B TZ
environment variable controls what time zone dates are assumed to be
in if a timezone is not specified as part of the date.

.SH NOTES
The
.B \-p
option for specifying precision level is an extension specific to this
version of
.B ts
and is not available in the moreutils version of the utility. Users of
the moreutils implementation should be aware that this feature is
exclusive to this implementation and tailor their usage accordingly.

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright 2006 by Joey Hess <id@joeyh.name>

Licensed under the GNU GPL.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR strftime(3)
